(feat): Magento integration doc (#12766)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/agents/php-agent/other-integrations/magento-integration.mdx

you'll have access to a pre-built dashboard with important app metrics, like errors, application crashes, app launches, app installations, HTTP errors, and network failures.

<img
    title="Magento dashboard overview"
    alt="screenshot of Magento dashboard"
    src={apmMagentoDashboardOverview}
/>

<figcaption>
    After setting up our Magento integration, we give you a dashboard for your Magento app data.
</figcaption>

<Steps>
    <Step>
        ## (Optional) Install the infrastructure agent

        Our infrastructure agent monitors your host and reports metrics such as CPU usage, memory usage, storage usage, disk usage, and network traffic. 
        
        To install the agent, follow the instructions in our guided install by going to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, search for and select  **Website Performance Monitoring**
        
        If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Install the infrastructure monitoring agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent/).

        </Step>

    <Step>
        ## Install the PHP agent

>         Our PHP agent reports application and browser-related metrics such as AJAX performance, error rate, duration, core web vitals, and throughput.

Author: ```suggestion
        Our PHP agent reports application and browser-related metrics like AJAX performance, error rate, duration, core web vitals, and throughput.
```

        
        If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Apache monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/apache-monitoring-integration).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install the Elasticsearch integration
        
        Our Elasticsearch integration collects metrics like cluster status and current shards. If you're using [Magento version 2.4 and higher](https://magentip.com/install-magento-2-4-x-on-ubuntu-with-elasticsearch/), you'll to install an ElasticSearch application and agent to monitor that application. 
        
        To install the integration, follow the instructions in our guided install by going to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add data > (search for Elasticsearch) > (select an account)**.

        If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Apache monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-integration).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Create synthetic monitors

>         Synthetic monitoring allows you to monitor your site vailability and downtime-related metrics. Create synthetic monitors to test your app in different geolocations for things like availability, page load performance, and user flow.

Author: ```suggestion
        Synthetic monitoring allows you to monitor your site availability and downtime-related metrics. Create synthetic monitors to test your app in different geolocations for things like availability, page load performance, and user flow.
```

>         To create synthetic monitors, follow the instructions in our [guided install](https://onenr.io/0EjOXrnxgQ6).

Author: ```suggestion
        To create synthetic monitors, [follow the instructions in our UI](https://onenr.io/0EjOXrnxgQ6).
```

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) integration
        
        Our AWS IAM integration collects metrics such as certificates per account, groups per account, MFA devices per account, roles per account, and users per account.

>         To install the integration, follow the instructions in our guided install:

Author: ```suggestion
        To install the integration:
```

                        - name: MYSQLProductsTotal
                        run: SELECT count(*) AS 'Total Products' FROM catalog_product_entity_varchar WHERE attribute_id = 73;
                        custom_attributes: # can apply additional at a nested level
                            attype: blocking-query
                            host: CustomMagentoMySQL

                ```

  
        3. Restart the infrastructure agent

        [Restart the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/) to start sending all the query results to [one.newrelic.com](one.newrelic.com). 

        Query Example
        Here's an example of a query to view total registered customers on your magento platform:
        ```
        SELECT LATEST(`Registered Accounts`) AS ‘Registered Accounts’ FROM MYSQLCustomerEntityRegisteredUsers
        ```

    </Step>

<Step>
    ## View your app data

>     To instrument the Magento quickstart and to see metrics and alerts, you can also follow our [Magento Business Insights quickstart page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/magento) by clicking on the “Install now” button.

Author: Shouldn't this be a required step to view your Magento dashboard?

Reviewer: Yes it is. 
Kindly update the below
Before: `To instrument the Magento quickstart and to see metrics and alerts, you can also follow our [Magento Business Insights quickstart page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/magento) by clicking on the “Install now” button.`
After: `To instrument the Magento quickstart and to see metrics and alerts, you can also follow our [Magento Business Insights](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/magento-business-insights) quickstart page by clicking on the “Install now” button.`

                        - name: MYSQLTopTenSalesOrdersByValue
                        run: SELECT entity_id AS 'orderId', total_item_count AS 'orderQuantity', created_at AS 'createdDate', grand_total AS 'grandTotal' FROM sales_order ORDER BY grand_total DESC LIMIT 10;
                        - name: MYSQLOrdersAverage
                        run: SELECT AVG(order_count) AS 'AverageNumberOfOrders', Year AS 'Year' FROM (SELECT YEAR(created_at) AS 'Year', COUNT(DISTINCT order_id) AS order_count FROM sales_order_item GROUP BY MONTH(created_at), YEAR(created_at)) subquery GROUP BY Year;
                        - name: MYSQLProductsTotal
                        run: SELECT count(*) AS 'Total Products' FROM catalog_product_entity_varchar WHERE attribute_id = 73;
                        custom_attributes: # can apply additional at a nested level
                            attype: blocking-query
                            host: CustomMagentoMySQL

                ```

  

>         3. Restart the infrastructure agent

Author: If the infra agent is optional, does that mean this step is also optional?

Reviewer: Infra agent is not optional anymore.

                        custom_attributes: # can apply additional at a nested level
                            attype: blocking-query
                            host: CustomMagentoMySQL
                ```

>         3. [Restart the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/).

Author: Is setting up Flex integration required but this an optional step, or is setting up Flex altogether an optional step?

Reviewer 2: Flex integration is required for using the business dashboard.

        
        If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Apache monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/apache-monitoring-integration).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install our Elasticsearch integration
        
        Our Elasticsearch integration collects metrics like cluster status and current shards. If you're using [Magento version 2.4 and higher](https://magentip.com/install-magento-2-4-x-on-ubuntu-with-elasticsearch/), you'll to install an ElasticSearch application and agent to monitor that application. 
        
        To install the integration, follow the instructions in our guided install by going to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add data > (search for Elasticsearch) > (select an account)**.

        If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Apache monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-integration).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>

>         ## Create synthetic monitors

Author: Is this optional or required?

Reviewer 2: It's required in order to capture the server downtime.

        Our synthetic monitoring feature uses synthetic monitors to test your app in different geolocations for things like availability, page load performance, and user flow.

        To create synthetic monitors, follow the steps in our [guided install](https://onenr.io/0EjOXrnxgQ6).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) integration
        
        Our AWS IAM integration collects metrics such as certificates per account, groups per account, MFA devices per account, roles per account, and users per account.

        To install the integration:

        1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)** and click the **Integrate your AWS account** card. 
        2. Select an account and follow the guided install steps.

        For more information on this integration, see [AWS IAM integration](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-iam-monitoring-integration)
        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install the Flex integration

        Our Flex integration allows you to capture business metrics through queries of your app database.

>         To install the Flex integration:

Author: ```suggestion
        To install the integration:
```

                            host: CustomMagentoMySQL

                ```

  
        3. Restart the infrastructure agent

        To start sending all the Flex query results to [one.newrelic.com](one.newrelic.com), you'll need to restart the infrastructure agent. Follow the steps on [Start, stop, and restart the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/).

        Once you've got Flex queries in New Relic, you can use a NRQL query to view data and create dashboards and charts based on queries. 
        
        For example, query the following to view total registered customers on your magento platform:

        ```
        SELECT LATEST(`Registered Accounts`) AS ‘Registered Accounts’ FROM MYSQLCustomerEntityRegisteredUsers
        ```

    </Step>

<Step>
    ## View your app data

    To instrument the Magento quickstart and to see metrics and alerts, follow the steps on the [Magento Business Insights quickstart page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/magento).

    To view your Magento app data, add our pre-built dashboard named “Magento Business Insights” to your account: 

>         1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Dashboards** and search for "Magento". You should see our pre-build dashboard named “Magento Business Insights”. Click on it to add it to your account.

Author: On Line 21, we say "After setting up our Magento integration, we give you a dashboard for your Magento app data." Is this only available once you've set up all the agents/integrations? Or do you need to follow the instructions on the quickstart page, which includes adding the dashboard to your account? If this is true, then I'll make this a mandatory step, where you need to follow the quickstart page to add the dashboard to view your Magento data.

The info about the Magento quickstart is also confusing.

Reviewer 2: The title should be 'Add the Magento Business Insights dashboard'

---

> title: Magento monitoring integration

Reviewer 2: The product name is 'Magento Business Insights'. There is already a Magento quickstart, so we don't want to duplicate it.

> title: Magento monitoring integration

Author: ```suggestion
title: Magento business insights
```

tags:
    - New Relic integrations
    - Magento

> metaDescription: Monitor your Magento application.

Author: ```suggestion
metaDescription: Monitor your Magento application's performance with our comprehensive Magento Business Insights dashboard. Track key metrics like page load time, server response time, transaction time, error rate, and availability.
```

> metaDescription: Monitor your Magento application's performance with our comprehensive Magento Business Insights dashboard. Track key metrics like page load time, server response time, transaction time, error rate, and availability.

Author: ```suggestion
metaDescription: Monitor your Magento application's performance with our comprehensive Magento business insights dashboard. Track key metrics like page load time, server response time, transaction time, error rate, and availability.
```

---

import apmMagentoDashboardOverview from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_magento-dashboard-overview.png'

> Our Magento integration monitors the performance of your Magento ecommerce application, helping you diagnose issues in your app's performance and respond by optimizing your code. Our Magento integration relies on our agents to collect and report your app data, and

Author: ```suggestion
Our Magento business insights dashboard allows you to monitor the performance of your Magento ecommerce application, helping you diagnose issues and respond optomize your code. Our Magento integration relies on our agents to collect and report your app data, and
```

> Our Magento integration monitors the performance of your Magento ecommerce application, helping you diagnose issues in your app's performance and respond by optimizing your code. Our Magento integration relies on our agents to collect and report your app data, and
> you'll have access to a pre-built dashboard with important app metrics like page load time, server response time, transaction time, error rate, and availability.

Author: ```suggestion
Our Magento integration monitors the performance of your Magento ecommerce application and reports important metrics like page load time, server response time, transaction time, error rate, and availability. Once you set up our Magento integration, you'll be able to use the  **Magento business insights** dashboard to diagnose issues in your app's performance and optimize your code.
```

<img
    title="Magento dashboard overview"

>     alt="screenshot of Magento dashboard"

Author: ```suggestion
    alt="A screenshot of a dashboard with a variety of graphs and charts showing data about a Magento ecommerce application."
```

    src={apmMagentoDashboardOverview}
/>

<figcaption>

>     After setting up our Magento integration, we give you a dashboard for your Magento app data.

Author: ```suggestion
    Our **Magento business insights** dashboard gives you a central view of your Magento app data. 
```

</figcaption>

<Steps>
    <Step>

>         ## (Optional) Install the infrastructure agent

Author: ```suggestion
        ## Install the infrastructure agent
```

        
If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Apache monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/apache-monitoring-integration).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install the Elasticsearch integration
        
        Our Elasticsearch integration collects metrics like cluster status and current shards. If you're using [Magento version 2.4 and higher](https://magentip.com/install-magento-2-4-x-on-ubuntu-with-elasticsearch/), you'll to install an ElasticSearch application and agent to monitor that application. 
        
        To install the integration:

        1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add data**.
        2. Search for and click on **Elasticsearch**.
        3. Select an account and follow the guided install steps.

If you need to install the agent in a different way, see [Apache monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-integration).

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Create synthetic monitors

>         Our synthetic monitoring feature uses synthetic monitors to test your app in different geolocations for things like availability, page load performance, and user flow.

Author: ```suggestion
        Our synthetic monitoring feature uses synthetic monitors to test your app in different geolocations to capture server downtime.
```

                        - name: MYSQLOrdersAverage
                        run: SELECT AVG(order_count) AS 'AverageNumberOfOrders', Year AS 'Year' FROM (SELECT YEAR(created_at) AS 'Year', COUNT(DISTINCT order_id) AS order_count FROM sales_order_item GROUP BY MONTH(created_at), YEAR(created_at)) subquery GROUP BY Year;
                        - name: MYSQLProductsTotal
                        run: SELECT count(*) AS 'Total Products' FROM catalog_product_entity_varchar WHERE attribute_id = 73;
                        custom_attributes: # can apply additional at a nested level
                            attype: blocking-query
                            host: CustomMagentoMySQL
                ```

        3. [Restart the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/).
    
        Wait five minutes and then proceed to finding your data in New Relic.
    </Step>

<Step>

    ## Find your data [#find-data]

    To get your Magento dashboard: 

        1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Dashboards**.

>         3. In the search bar, type "Magento Business Insights". The dashboard should appear. 

Author: ```suggestion
        3. In the search bar, type "Magento business insights". The dashboard should appear. 
```

---
title: Magento monitoring integration
tags:
    - New Relic integrations
    - Magento
metaDescription: Monitor your Magento application.
---

import apmMagentoDashboardOverview from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_magento-dashboard-overview.png'

Our Magento integration monitors the performance of your Magento ecommerce application, helping you diagnose issues in your app's performance and respond by optimizing your code. Our Magento integration relies on our agents to collect and report your app data, and

> you'll have access to a pre-built dashboard with important app metrics, like errors, application crashes, app launches, app installations, HTTP errors, and network failures.

Author: ```suggestion
you'll have access to a pre-built dashboard with important app metrics, like page load time, server response time, transaction time, error rate, and availability.
```
Are these correct/important examples of Magento metrics?

        * Follow our guided install to instrument your system with the infrastructure agent. Or if you prefer, you can install the infrastructure agent by following the docs.
        * By integrating this infrastructure agent in your system, one can able to 
        know the CPU usage,Memory usage,Storage usage,Disk usage and Network traffic etc.

        </Step>

    <Step>
        ## Install our PHP agent

        Install PHP agent to instrument your Magento application and get Application and Browser related Metrics like AJAX performance,Error Rate,Duration,Core web vitals and Throughput.
        Follow php documentation: https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/php-agent/getting-started/php-agent-compatibility-requirements/ to learn more about.

        From one.newrelic.com:

        1. Click Add data
        2. Click Application monitoring
        3. Click on PHP card
        4. Select an account
        5. Click Begin installation
        6. Click on On host
        7. Copy the command and run it on your terminal

        </Step>
    
    <Step>

>         ## Install our MySQL agent

Author: Since MySQL also requires the infra agent, should this step be optional (if the infra agent is optional)?

Reviewer: Infra agent is not optional

        From one.newrelic.com:
                    
        1. Click Add data
        2. Click Infrastructure & OS
        3. Click on Apache card
        4. Select an account
        5. Click Begin installation
        6. Copy the command and run it on your terminal

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install our Elasticsearch 
        
        Install Elasticsearch agent , if one is using Magento version above 2.4, one needs to install an ElasticSearch application and agent to monitor that application.You can monitor metrics like Cluster status and Current shards.
        docs:https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-integration/
        Reference:https://magentip.com/install-magento-2-4-x-on-ubuntu-with-elasticsearch/

        From one.newrelic.com:
                    
        1. Click Add data
        2. Click Infrastructure & OS
        3. Click on Elasticsearch card
        4. Select an account
        5. Click Begin installation
        6. Copy the command and run it on your terminal

        </Step>
    

    <Step>

>         ## Set up synthetic monitoring

Author: Is this an optional or required step?

Reviewer: It's required in order to capture the server downtime.

        Synthetic monitoring allows you to monitor your site vailability and downtime-related metrics.

        1. Click Add data
        2. Click Simulate traffic
        3. Click on Synthetic monitoring card
        4. Select monitor type i.e, Availability and Page load 
        5. Configure monitor by giving Name, Tags, URL and Period
        6. Select locations 
        7. Save monitor

        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Install AWS 
        
        Install AWS in order to get metrics like Certificates per account, Groups per account, MFA devices per account, Roles per account and Users per account.

        From one.newrelic.com:
            
        1. Click Add data
        2. Click Amazon Web Services
        3. Click on Integrate your AWS account card
        4. Select an account
        5. Select Amazon Web Services you want to monitor with New Relic.
        Here is the reference docs for AWS IAM :https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-iam-monitoring-integration/
        </Step>
    

    <Step>
        ## Configure our Flex integration

>         1. Create an nri-flex configuration file:

Author: Is NR Flex also optional since it comes bundled with the infra agent (and we say the infra agent is optional)?

Reviewer: My apology for writing infra agent as optional, its required

---
title: Magento monitoring integration
tags:
    - New Relic integrations
    - Magento
metaDescription: Monitor your Magento application.
---

import apmMagentoDashboardOverview from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_magento-dashboard-overview.png'

Our Magento integration monitors the performance of your Magento ecommerce application, helping you diagnose issues in your app's performance and respond by optimizing your code. Our Magento integration relies on these New Relic agents and tool:

* PHP agent
* MySQL agent
* Apache agent
* Elasticsearch agent
* (Optional) Infrastructure agent

> * NRI-flex (Our all-in-one tool that allows you to collect metric data from a wide variety of services.)

Author: Is NR Flex also optional since it comes bundled with the infra agent (and we say the infra agent is optional)?
